TheForceEngine/Documentation/markdown/TheForceEngine.md, before:

## The Force Engine
The Force Engine is a project with the goal to reverse engineer and rebuild the Jedi Engine for modern systems and the games that used that engine - Dark Forces and Outlaws. The project will include modern, built-in tools, such as a level editor and will make it easy to play Dark Forces and Outlaws on modern systems as well as the many community mods designed to work with the original games.

Playing Dark Forces or, in the future, Outlaws using the Force Engine will add ease of use and modern features such as higher resolutions and modern control schemes such as mouse-look. Using the built-in tools, once they are available, will allow for easier modding with more modern UI, greater flexibility and the ability to use enhancements made to the Jedi Engine for Outlaws in custom Dark Forces levels - such as slopes, stacked sectors, per-sector color maps and more.

**Dark Forces support is complete, but Outlaws is not playable yet** - the focus so far has been on the framework, Dark Forces support, and JEDI reverse-engineering. However, Outlaws support is planned and will be complete in **TFE version 2.0**.

## Current Release
The current release only supports Dark Forces. All weapons, AI, items, and all other systems function, including IMuse. You can play through Dark Forces from beginning to end and play existing Dark Forces mods. As with any project of this nature, there may be bugs and system specific issues - if you run into any bugs that cannot be reproduced in the DOS version, please post them on the forums or GitHub.

## Links
[Website](https://theforceengine.github.io/)
[GitHub](https://github.com/luciusDXL/TheForceEngine)
[Forums](https://the-force-engine.freeforums.net/)
[Discord](https://discord.gg/hpsJnY9)

## The Force Engine VR
The Force Engine VR is a VR port of The Force Engine, currently PCVR only (you need a Window PC to play it) but ports to Meta Quest & other standalone VR headsets are in development/planned.

## Requirements for VR
- a copy of Dark Forces (Remaster) game ([GOG](https://www.gog.com/en/game/star_wars_dark_forces_remaster) or [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/2292260/STAR_WARS_Dark_Forces_Remaster/)), non-Remaster version works too but Remaster is recommended for better visuals

PC version:
- any OpenXR conformant [VR headset](<https://www.khronos.org/conformance/adopters/conformant-products/openxr>) & Windows 10/11
- any GPU able to run the original with **GL_OVR_multiview2** OpenGL extension support, no iGPU tested yet however AMD APUs should work
- any x64 CPUs able to run the original, no ARM CPUs tested yet

Standalone version (sooner or later):
- Meta Quest 2/Quest 3(S)/Quest Pro

## Current Status of VR
Perfectly playable in 3DoF with keyboard + mouse / gamepad.

## What's Next in VR
- VR controllers support
- installer (Windows) (done, v0.8.23-vr)
- porting to Meta Quest 2/Quest 3(S)/Quest Pro
- 6DoF
- mirroring to view your VR gameplay diretly in game window on desktop, meanwhile you can use Oculus Mirror or SteamVR View instead
- editor support

## Links
Note: if you are in VR by clicking on links bellow a web browser and/Discord will be opened on your PC so the game window focus will be lost, just Alt-Tab back to game window to be able to use keyboard/mouse again.
[GitHub](https://github.com/SoVRHere/TheForceEngineVR)
[Discord](https://discord.gg/8XuXVFzyNu)
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCI20xAhQjT6r4fjBRZ6SgbQ)
[Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/SoVRHere)

Commit message:

Shaders updated to be OpenGL ES (Android) compatible.

TheForceEngine/Documentation/markdown/TheForceEngine.md, after:

## The Force Engine
The Force Engine is a project with the goal to reverse engineer and rebuild the Jedi Engine for modern systems and the games that used that engine - Dark Forces and Outlaws. The project will include modern, built-in tools, such as a level editor and will make it easy to play Dark Forces and Outlaws on modern systems as well as the many community mods designed to work with the original games.

Playing Dark Forces or, in the future, Outlaws using the Force Engine will add ease of use and modern features such as higher resolutions and modern control schemes such as mouse-look. Using the built-in tools, once they are available, will allow for easier modding with more modern UI, greater flexibility and the ability to use enhancements made to the Jedi Engine for Outlaws in custom Dark Forces levels - such as slopes, stacked sectors, per-sector color maps and more.

**Dark Forces support is complete, but Outlaws is not playable yet** - the focus so far has been on the framework, Dark Forces support, and JEDI reverse-engineering. However, Outlaws support is planned and will be complete in **TFE version 2.0**.

## Current Release
The current release only supports Dark Forces. All weapons, AI, items, and all other systems function, including IMuse. You can play through Dark Forces from beginning to end and play existing Dark Forces mods. As with any project of this nature, there may be bugs and system specific issues - if you run into any bugs that cannot be reproduced in the DOS version, please post them on the forums or GitHub.

## Links
[Website](https://theforceengine.github.io/)
[GitHub](https://github.com/luciusDXL/TheForceEngine)
[Forums](https://the-force-engine.freeforums.net/)
[Discord](https://discord.gg/hpsJnY9)

## The Force Engine VR
The Force Engine VR is a VR port of The Force Engine, currently PCVR only (you need a Window PC to play it) but ports to Meta Quest & other standalone VR headsets are in development/planned.

## Requirements for VR
- a copy of Dark Forces (Remaster) game ([GOG](https://www.gog.com/en/game/star_wars_dark_forces_remaster) or [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/2292260/STAR_WARS_Dark_Forces_Remaster/)), non-Remaster version works too but Remaster is recommended for better visuals

PC version:
- any OpenXR conformant [VR headset](<https://www.khronos.org/conformance/adopters/conformant-products/openxr>) & Windows 10/11
- any GPU able to run the original with **GL_OVR_multiview2** OpenGL extension support, no iGPU tested yet however AMD APUs should work
- any x64 CPUs able to run the original, no ARM CPUs tested yet

Standalone version (sooner or later):
- Meta Quest 2/Quest 3(S)/Quest Pro

## Current Status of VR
Perfectly playable in 3DoF with keyboard + mouse / gamepad / VR controllers.

## What's Next in VR
- VR controllers support (done, v0.9.24-vr)
- installer (Windows) (done, v0.8.23-vr)
- porting to Android
- porting to Meta Quest 2/Quest 3(S)/Quest Pro
- 6DoF
- mirroring to view your VR gameplay directly in game window on desktop, meanwhile you can use Oculus Mirror or SteamVR View instead
- editor support

## Links
Note: if you are in VR by clicking on links bellow a web browser and/Discord will be opened on your PC so the game window focus will be lost, just Alt-Tab back to game window to be able to use keyboard/mouse again.
[GitHub](https://github.com/SoVRHere/TheForceEngineVR)
[Discord](https://discord.gg/8XuXVFzyNu)
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCI20xAhQjT6r4fjBRZ6SgbQ)
[Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/SoVRHere)
